Add TroubleshootingGuide.md for Azure.Monitor.Query (#28194)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-net: sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/TroubleshootingGuide.md

    * [Troubleshooting insufficient access error](#troubleshooting-insufficient-access-error-for-metrics-query)
    * [Troubleshooting unsupported granularity](#troubleshooting-unsupported-granularity)
* [Additional Azure Core configurations](#additional-azure-core-configurations)

## General troubleshooting

The library raises the exceptions described in [Azure Core](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/README.md).

### Enable client logging

To troubleshoot issues with the library, first enable logging to monitor the behavior of the application. The errors and warnings in the logs generally provide useful insights into what went wrong and sometimes include corrective actions to fix issues.

This library uses the standard [logging](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/azure/sdk/logging) library. Basic information about HTTP sessions, such as URLs and headers, is logged at the INFO level. The following code snippet will log to the console.

```csharp
using Azure.Core.Diagnostics;
using AzureEventSourceListener listener = AzureEventSourceListener.CreateConsoleLogger();
```

### Authentication errors

> Azure Monitor Query supports Azure Active Directory authentication. Both `LogsQueryClient` and `MetricsQueryClient` have methods to set the credential. To provide a valid credential, you can use the `Azure.Identity` package. For more details on getting started, see the [Azure Monitor Query library's README](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/README.md#authenticate-the-client). You can also refer to the [Azure Identity library's documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/Identity-readme) for details on the credential types supported in `Azure.Identity`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Monitor Query supports Azure Active Directory authentication. Both `LogsQueryClient` and `MetricsQueryClient` have methods to set the credential. To provide a valid credential, you can use the `Azure.Identity` package. For more details on getting started, see the [Azure Monitor Query library's README](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/README.md#authenticate-the-client). For details on the credential types supported in `Azure.Identity`, see the [Azure Identity library's documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/Identity-readme).
```

> For more help with troubleshooting authentication errors, see the Azure Identity client library [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/TroubleshootingGuide.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more help with troubleshooting authentication errors, see the Azure Identity client library [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity/TROUBLESHOOTING.md).
```

## Troubleshooting logs query

### Troubleshooting insufficient access error for logs query

> If you get an HTTP error with status code 403 (Forbidden), it means the provided credentials doesn't have sufficient permissions to query the workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you get an HTTP error with status code 403 (Forbidden), it means the provided credentials lack sufficient permissions to query the workspace.
```

```text
"{"error":{"message":"The provided credentials have insufficient access to perform the requested operation","code":"InsufficientAccessError","correlationId":""}}"
```

1. Check that the application or user that is making the request has sufficient permissions:
    * You can refer to this document to [manage access to workspaces](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/logs/manage-access#manage-access-using-workspace-permissions)

> 2. If the user or application is granted sufficient privileges to query the workspace, make sure you're authenticating as that user/application. If you're authenticating using the [DefaultAzureCredential](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity), check the logs to verify the credential used is the one you expected. To enable logging, see the [Enable client logging](#enable-client-logging) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the user or application is granted sufficient privileges to query the workspace, make sure you're authenticating as that user/application. If you're authenticating using the [DefaultAzureCredential](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential?view=azure-dotnet), check the logs to verify the credential used is the one you expected. To enable logging, see the [Enable client logging](#enable-client-logging) section.
```

> For more help on troubleshooting authentication errors please see the Azure Identity client library [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/TroubleshootingGuide.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more help on troubleshooting authentication errors, see the Azure Identity client library [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity/TROUBLESHOOTING.md).
```

### Troubleshooting invalid Kusto query

If you get an HTTP error with status code 400 (Bad Request), you may have an error in your Kusto query. You'll see an error message similar to the one below.

```text
(BadArgumentError) The request had some invalid properties
Code: BadArgumentError
Message: The request had some invalid properties
Inner error: {
    "code": "SemanticError",
    "message": "A semantic error occurred.",
    "innererror": {
        "code": "SEM0100",
        "message": "'take' operator: Failed to resolve table or column expression named 'Appquests'"
    }
}
```

The error message in `innererror` may include the where the Kusto query has an error. You may also refer to the [Kusto Query Language](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/query) (KQL) reference docs to learn more about querying logs using KQL.

### Troubleshooting empty log query results

> If your Kusto query returns empty or has no logs, please validate the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Kusto query returns empty or has no logs, validate the following:
```

- You have the right workspace ID
- You're setting the correct time interval for the query. Try expanding the time interval for your query to see if that returns any results.

> - If your Kusto query also has a time interval, the query is evaluated for the intersection of the time interval in the query string and the time interval set in the `timespan` param provided the query API. The intersection of these time intervals may not have any logs. To avoid any confusion, it's recommended to remove any time interval in the Kusto query string and use `timespan` explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If your Kusto query also has a time interval, the query is evaluated for the intersection of the time interval in the query string and the time interval set in the `timeRange` parameter provided the query API. The intersection of these time intervals may not have any logs. To avoid any confusion, it's recommended to remove any time interval in the Kusto query string and use `timeRange` explicitly.
```

### Troubleshooting server timeouts when executing logs query request

Some complex Kusto queries can take a long time to complete and such queries are aborted by the service if they run for more than 3 minutes. For such scenarios, the query APIs on `LogsQueryClient`, provide options to configure the timeout on the server. The server timeout can be extended up to 10 minutes.

You may see an error as follows:

```text
Code: GatewayTimeout
Message: Gateway timeout
Inner error: {
    "code": "GatewayTimeout",
    "message": "Unable to unzip response"
}
```

The following code shows an example of setting the server timeout. By setting this server timeout, the Azure Monitor Query library will automatically extend the client timeout to wait for 10 minutes for the server to respond. You don't need to configure your HTTP client to extend the response timeout, as shown in the previous section.

> ```csharp

Reviewer: This code sample should be imported from a code snippet. We need to ensure that the code compiles as the library evolves. See Josh's comment at https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/pull/28194/files#r850007609.

using Azure;
using Azure.Identity;
using Azure.Monitor.Query;
using Azure.Monitor.Query.Models;

string workspaceId = "<workspace_id>";
var client = new LogsQueryClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());
Response<LogsQueryResult> response = await client.QueryWorkspaceAsync(
    workspaceId,
    "AzureActivity | top 10 by TimeGenerated",
    new QueryTimeRange(TimeSpan.FromDays(1)),
    new LogsQueryOptions
    {
        IncludeStatistics = true,
    });

    BinaryData stats = response.Value.GetStatistics();
    using var statsDoc = JsonDocument.Parse(stats);
    var queryStats = statsDoc.RootElement.GetProperty("query");
    Console.WriteLine(queryStats.GetProperty("executionTime").GetDouble());                
```

### Troubleshooting partially successful logs query requests

> By default, if the execution of a Kusto query resulted in a partially successful response, the Azure Monitor Query client library will throw an exception. The exception indicates to the user that the query wasn't fully successful. The data and
> the error can be accessed using the `LogsQueryResultStatus` enum and `Error` fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, if the execution of a Kusto query resulted in a partially successful response, the Azure Monitor Query client library will throw an exception. The exception indicates to the user that the query wasn't fully successful. The data and the error can be accessed using the `LogsQueryResultStatus` enum and `Error` fields.
```

> ```csharp

Reviewer: Import this code sample from a code snippet too.

var results = await client.QueryWorkspaceAsync(TestEnvironment.WorkspaceId,
    "{kusto-query-string}",
    "{query-time-range}", 
    new LogsQueryOptions
    {
        AllowPartialErrors = true
    });

var partialFailure = LogsQueryResultStatus.PartialFailure;
var status = results.Value.Status;
var errorCode = results.Value.Error.Code;
var errorMessage = results.Value.Error.Message;
```

## Troubleshooting metrics query

### Troubleshooting insufficient access error for metrics query

If you get an HTTP error with status code 403 (Forbidden), it means the provided credentials lack sufficient permissions to query the workspace.

```text
"{"error":{"message":"The provided credentials have insufficient access to perform the requested operation","code":"InsufficientAccessError","correlationId":""}}"
```

1. Check that the application or user that is making the request has sufficient permissions:
    * You can refer to this document to [manage access to workspaces](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/logs/manage-access#manage-access-using-workspace-permissions)

> 2. If the user or application is granted sufficient privileges to query the workspace, make sure you're authenticating as that user/application. If you're authenticating using the [DefaultAzureCredential](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity), check the logs to verify the credential used is the one you expected. To enable logging, see the [Enable client logging](#enable-client-logging) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the user or application is granted sufficient privileges to query the workspace, make sure you're authenticating as that user/application. If you're authenticating using the [DefaultAzureCredential](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential?view=azure-dotnet), check the logs to verify the credential used is the one you expected. To enable logging, see the [Enable client logging](#enable-client-logging) section.
```

> For more help with troubleshooting authentication errors, see the Azure Identity client library [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/TroubleshootingGuide.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more help with troubleshooting authentication errors, see the Azure Identity client library [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity/TROUBLESHOOTING.md).
```

    * [Enable client logging](#enable-client-logging)
    * [Troubleshooting authentication issues with logs and metrics query requests](#authentication-errors)
    * [Troubleshooting running async APIs](#errors-with-running-async-apis)
* [Troubleshooting Logs Query](#troubleshooting-logs-query)
    * [Troubleshooting insufficient access error](#troubleshooting-insufficient-access-error-for-logs-query)
    * [Troubleshooting invalid Kusto query](#troubleshooting-invalid-kusto-query)
    * [Troubleshooting empty log query results](#troubleshooting-empty-log-query-results)
    * [Troubleshooting server timeouts when executing logs query request](#troubleshooting-server-timeouts-when-executing-logs-query-request)
    * [Troubleshooting partially successful logs query requests](#troubleshooting-partially-successful-logs-query-requests)
* [Troubleshooting Metrics Query](#troubleshooting-metrics-query)
    * [Troubleshooting insufficient access error](#troubleshooting-insufficient-access-error-for-metrics-query)
    * [Troubleshooting unsupported granularity for metrics query](#troubleshooting-unsupported-granularity-for-metrics-query)

> * [Additional azure-core configurations](#additional-azure-core-configurations)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Additional Azure Core configurations](#additional-azure-core-configurations)
```

### Enable client logging

To troubleshoot issues with Azure.Monitor.Query library, it is important to first enable logging to monitor the behavior of the application. The errors and warnings in the logs generally provide useful insights into what went wrong and sometimes include corrective actions to fix issues.

This library uses the standard [logging](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/azure/sdk/logging) library. Basic information about HTTP sessions, such as URLs and headers, is logged at the INFO level. The following code snippet will log to the console.

```csharp
using Azure.Core.Diagnostics;
using AzureEventSourceListener listener = AzureEventSourceListener.CreateConsoleLogger();
```

### Authentication errors

Azure Monitor Query supports Azure Active Directory authentication. Both LogsQueryClient and
MetricsQueryClient have methods to set the `credential`. To provide a valid credential, you can use
`AzureIdentity` dependency. For more details on getting started, refer to
the [README](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/README.md#authenticate-the-client)
of Azure Monitor Query library. You can also refer to

> the [Azure Identity documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/python/api/overview/azure/identity-readme)

Reviewer 2: The link points to Python's azure-identity doc

```text
"{"error":{"message":"The provided credentials have insufficient access to perform the requested operation","code":"InsufficientAccessError","correlationId":""}}"
```

1. Check that the application or user that is making the request has sufficient permissions:
    * You can refer to this document to [manage access to workspaces](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/logs/manage-access#manage-access-using-workspace-permissions)
2. If the user or application is granted sufficient privileges to query the workspace, make sure you are
   authenticating as that user/application. If you are authenticating using the
   [DefaultAzureCredential](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity)
   then check the logs to verify that the credential used is the one you expected. To enable logging, see [enable
   client logging](#enable-client-logging) section above.

For more help on troubleshooting authentication errors please see the Azure Identity client library [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/TroubleshootingGuide.md).

### Troubleshooting invalid Kusto query

> If you get an HTTP error with status code 400 (Bad Request), you may have an error in your Kusto query and you'll
> see an error message similar to the one below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you get an HTTP error with status code 400 (Bad Request), you may have an error in your Kusto query. You'll see an error message similar to the one below.
```

```text
(BadArgumentError) The request had some invalid properties
Code: BadArgumentError
Message: The request had some invalid properties
Inner error: {
    "code": "SemanticError",
    "message": "A semantic error occurred.",
    "innererror": {
        "code": "SEM0100",
        "message": "'take' operator: Failed to resolve table or column expression named 'Appquests'"
    }
}
```

> The error message in the innererror may include the where the Kusto query has an error. You may also refer to the [Kusto Query Language](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/query) reference docs to learn more about querying logs using KQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error message in `innererror` may include the where the Kusto query has an error. You may also refer to the [Kusto Query Language](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/query) reference docs to learn more about querying logs using KQL.
```

### Troubleshooting empty log query results

If your Kusto query returns empty no logs, please validate the following:

- You have the right workspace ID
- You are setting the correct time interval for the query. Try expanding the time interval for your query to see if that
  returns any results.
- If your Kusto query also has a time interval, the query is evaluated for the intersection of the time interval in the
  query string and the time interval set in the `timespan` param provided the query API. The intersection of
  these time intervals may not have any logs. To avoid any confusion, it's recommended to remove any time interval in

>   the Kusto query string and use `timespan` explicitly. Please note that the `timespan` param can be a timedelta,

Reviewer: `timedelta` is a Python thing

  a timedelta and a start datetime, or a start datetime/end datetime.

### Troubleshooting server timeouts when executing logs query request

Some complex Kusto queries can take a long time to complete and such queries are aborted by the
service if they run for more than 3 minutes. For such scenarios, the query APIs on `LogsQueryClient`, provide options to
configure the timeout on the server. The server timeout can be extended up to 10 minutes.

You may see an error as follows:

```text
Code: GatewayTimeout
Message: Gateway timeout
Inner error: {
    "code": "GatewayTimeout",
    "message": "Unable to unzip response"
}
```

The following code shows a sample on how to set the server timeout to 10 minutes. Note that by setting this server
timeout, the Azure Monitor Query library will automatically also extend the client timeout to wait for 10 minutes for
the server to respond. You don't need to configure your HTTP client to extend the response timeout as shown in the
previous section.

> ```csharp

Reviewer: If possible, import a code snippet here. That way, we can ensure the code compiles as the library evolves.

Reviewer 3: Yes, this should use a code snippet, e.g. https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/tests/LogsQueryClientSamples.cs#L22

using Azure;

> using Azure.Monitor.Query;

Reviewer: Since we're using `DefaultAzureCredential` in the sample code, let's also add the necessary `using` statement.

```suggestion
using Azure.Identity;
using Azure.Monitor.Query;
```

using Azure.Monitor.Query.Models;

string workspaceId = "<workspace_id>";
var client = new LogsQueryClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());
Response<LogsQueryResult> response = await client.QueryWorkspaceAsync(
    workspaceId,
    "{kusto-query-string}",

>     timespan="{timespan}",

Reviewer: Use the `QueryTimeRange` type for this parameter.

>     server_timeout=600)

Reviewer: You'll want to instantiate `LogsQueryOptions` and set its `ServerTimeout` property. Something like:

```
new LogsQueryOptions
{
    ServerTimeout = ...
}
```

```

### Troubleshooting partially successful logs query requests

By default, if the execution of a Kusto query resulted in a partially successful response, the Azure Monitor Query
client library will throw an exception to indicate to the user that the query was not fully successful. The data and

> the error can be accessed using the `PartialFailure` and `Error` fields.

Reviewer: Isn't `PartialFailure` an enum value? If so, this should be reworded to indicate that's the value to check for to determine if the query wasn't fully successful.

```csharp
var results = await client.QueryWorkspaceAsync(TestEnvironment.WorkspaceId,

> "{kusto-query-string}",
> timespan="{timespan}", new LogsQueryOptions()
> {
>     AllowPartialErrors = true
> });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "{kusto-query-string}",
    timespan="{timespan}", new LogsQueryOptions
    {
        AllowPartialErrors = true
    });
```

var partialFailure = LogsQueryResultStatus.PartialFailure;
var status = results.Value.Status;
var errorCode = results.Value.Error.Code;
var errorMessage = results.Value.Error.Message;
```

> ## Troubleshooting Metrics Query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshooting metrics query
```

### Troubleshooting insufficient access error for metrics query

If you get an HTTP error with status code 403 (Forbidden), it means that the provided credentials does not have
sufficient permissions to query the workspace.
```text
"{"error":{"message":"The provided credentials have insufficient access to perform the requested operation","code":"InsufficientAccessError","correlationId":""}}"
```

1. Check that the application or user that is making the request has sufficient permissions:
    * You can refer to this document to [manage access to workspaces](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/logs/manage-access#manage-access-using-workspace-permissions)

> 2. If the user or application is granted sufficient privileges to query the workspace, make sure you are
>    authenticating as that user/application. If you are authenticating using the
>    [DefaultAzureCredential](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity)
>    then check the logs to verify that the credential used is the one you expected. To enable logging, see [enable
>    client logging](#enable-client-logging) section above.
> 
> For more help on troubleshooting authentication errors please see the Azure Identity client library [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/TroubleshootingGuide.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the user or application is granted sufficient privileges to query the workspace, make sure you're authenticating as that user/application. If you're authenticating using the [DefaultAzureCredential](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity), check the logs to verify the credential used is the one you expected. To enable logging, see the [Enable client logging](#enable-client-logging) section above.

For more help with troubleshooting authentication errors, see the Azure Identity client library [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/TroubleshootingGuide.md).
```

### Troubleshooting unsupported granularity for metrics query

If you notice the following exception, this is due to an invalid time granularity in the metrics query request. Your
query might have set the `granularity` keyword argument to an unsupported duration.

```text
"{"code":"BadRequest","message":"Invalid time grain duration: PT10M, supported ones are: 00:01:00,00:05:00,00:15:00,00:30:00,01:00:00,06:00:00,12:00:00,1.00:00:00"}"
```

> As documented in the error message, the supported granularity for metrics queries are 1 minute, 5 minutes, 15 minutes,
> 30 minutes, 1 hour, 6 hours, 12 hours and 1 day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As documented in the error message, the supported granularity for metrics queries are:

- 1 minute
- 5 minutes
- 15 minutes
- 30 minutes
- 1 hour
- 6 hours
- 12 hours
- 1 day
```

```csharp
using Azure.Core.Diagnostics;
using AzureEventSourceListener listener = AzureEventSourceListener.CreateConsoleLogger();
```

### Authentication errors

Azure Monitor Query supports Azure Active Directory authentication. Both `LogsQueryClient` and `MetricsQueryClient` have methods to set the credential. To provide a valid credential, you can use the `Azure.Identity` package. For more details on getting started, see the [Azure Monitor Query library's README](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/README.md#authenticate-the-client). You can also refer to the [Azure Identity library's documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/Identity-readme) for details on the credential types supported in `Azure.Identity`.

For more help with troubleshooting authentication errors, see the Azure Identity client library [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/TroubleshootingGuide.md).

## Troubleshooting logs query

### Troubleshooting insufficient access error for logs query

> If you get an HTTP error with status code 403 (Forbidden), it means that the provided credentials does not have
> sufficient permissions to query the workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you get an HTTP error with status code 403 (Forbidden), it means the provided credentials doesn't have sufficient permissions to query the workspace.

```

```text
"{"error":{"message":"The provided credentials have insufficient access to perform the requested operation","code":"InsufficientAccessError","correlationId":""}}"
```

1. Check that the application or user that is making the request has sufficient permissions:
    * You can refer to this document to [manage access to workspaces](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/logs/manage-access#manage-access-using-workspace-permissions)

> 2. If the user or application is granted sufficient privileges to query the workspace, make sure you are
>    authenticating as that user/application. If you are authenticating using the
>    [DefaultAzureCredential](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity)
>    then check the logs to verify that the credential used is the one you expected. To enable logging, see [enable
>    client logging](#enable-client-logging) section above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the user or application is granted sufficient privileges to query the workspace, make sure you're authenticating as that user/application. If you're authenticating using the [DefaultAzureCredential](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity), check the logs to verify the credential used is the one you expected. To enable logging, see the [Enable client logging](#enable-client-logging) section.
```

For more help on troubleshooting authentication errors please see the Azure Identity client library [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/TroubleshootingGuide.md).

### Troubleshooting invalid Kusto query

If you get an HTTP error with status code 400 (Bad Request), you may have an error in your Kusto query. You'll see an error message similar to the one below.

```text
(BadArgumentError) The request had some invalid properties
Code: BadArgumentError
Message: The request had some invalid properties
Inner error: {
    "code": "SemanticError",
    "message": "A semantic error occurred.",
    "innererror": {
        "code": "SEM0100",
        "message": "'take' operator: Failed to resolve table or column expression named 'Appquests'"
    }
}
```

> The error message in `innererror` may include the where the Kusto query has an error. You may also refer to the [Kusto Query Language](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/query) reference docs to learn more about querying logs using KQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error message in `innererror` may include the where the Kusto query has an error. You may also refer to the [Kusto Query Language](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/data-explorer/kusto/query) (KQL) reference docs to learn more about querying logs using KQL.
```

### Troubleshooting empty log query results

> If your Kusto query returns empty no logs, please validate the following:

Reviewer: Should this say "empty **or** no logs"?
```suggestion
If your Kusto query returns empty no logs, please validate the following:
```

Author: I changed it to "empty or has no logs" I think this is more clear

- You have the right workspace ID

> - You are setting the correct time interval for the query. Try expanding the time interval for your query to see if that
>   returns any results.
> - If your Kusto query also has a time interval, the query is evaluated for the intersection of the time interval in the
>   query string and the time interval set in the `timespan` param provided the query API. The intersection of
>   these time intervals may not have any logs. To avoid any confusion, it's recommended to remove any time interval in
>   the Kusto query string and use `timespan` explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You're setting the correct time interval for the query. Try expanding the time interval for your query to see if that returns any results.
- If your Kusto query also has a time interval, the query is evaluated for the intersection of the time interval in the query string and the time interval set in the `timespan` param provided the query API. The intersection of these time intervals may not have any logs. To avoid any confusion, it's recommended to remove any time interval in the Kusto query string and use `timespan` explicitly.
```

### Troubleshooting server timeouts when executing logs query request

> Some complex Kusto queries can take a long time to complete and such queries are aborted by the
> service if they run for more than 3 minutes. For such scenarios, the query APIs on `LogsQueryClient`, provide options to
> configure the timeout on the server. The server timeout can be extended up to 10 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some complex Kusto queries can take a long time to complete and such queries are aborted by the service if they run for more than 3 minutes. For such scenarios, the query APIs on `LogsQueryClient`, provide options to configure the timeout on the server. The server timeout can be extended up to 10 minutes.
```

You may see an error as follows:

```text
Code: GatewayTimeout
Message: Gateway timeout
Inner error: {
    "code": "GatewayTimeout",
    "message": "Unable to unzip response"
}
```

> The following code shows a sample on how to set the server timeout. Note that by setting this server
> timeout, the Azure Monitor Query library will automatically also extend the client timeout to wait for 10 minutes for
> the server to respond. You don't need to configure your HTTP client to extend the response timeout as shown in the
> previous section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code shows an example of setting the server timeout. By setting this server timeout, the Azure Monitor Query library will automatically extend the client timeout to wait for 10 minutes for the server to respond. You don't need to configure your HTTP client to extend the response timeout, as shown in the previous section.
```

```csharp
using Azure;
using Azure.Identity;
using Azure.Monitor.Query;
using Azure.Monitor.Query.Models;

string workspaceId = "<workspace_id>";
var client = new LogsQueryClient(new DefaultAzureCredential());
Response<LogsQueryResult> response = await client.QueryWorkspaceAsync(
    workspaceId,

>         "AzureActivity | top 10 by TimeGenerated",
>         new QueryTimeRange(TimeSpan.FromDays(1)),
>         new LogsQueryOptions
>         {
>             IncludeStatistics = true,
>         });

Reviewer: Dedent to align with `workspaceId`
```suggestion
    "AzureActivity | top 10 by TimeGenerated",
    new QueryTimeRange(TimeSpan.FromDays(1)),
    new LogsQueryOptions
    {
        IncludeStatistics = true,
    });
```

    BinaryData stats = response.Value.GetStatistics();
    using var statsDoc = JsonDocument.Parse(stats);
    var queryStats = statsDoc.RootElement.GetProperty("query");
    Console.WriteLine(queryStats.GetProperty("executionTime").GetDouble());                
```

### Troubleshooting partially successful logs query requests

> By default, if the execution of a Kusto query resulted in a partially successful response, the Azure Monitor Query
> client library will throw an exception to indicate to the user that the query was not fully successful. The data and
> the error can be accessed using the `LogsQueryResultStatus` enum and `Error` fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, if the execution of a Kusto query resulted in a partially successful response, the Azure Monitor Query client library will throw an exception. The exception indicates to the user that the query wasn't fully successful. The data and
the error can be accessed using the `LogsQueryResultStatus` enum and `Error` fields.
```

```csharp
var results = await client.QueryWorkspaceAsync(TestEnvironment.WorkspaceId,
    "{kusto-query-string}",
    "{query-time-range}", 
    new LogsQueryOptions

>         {
>             AllowPartialErrors = true
>         });

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {
        AllowPartialErrors = true
    });
```

var partialFailure = LogsQueryResultStatus.PartialFailure;
var status = results.Value.Status;
var errorCode = results.Value.Error.Code;
var errorMessage = results.Value.Error.Message;
```

## Troubleshooting metrics query

### Troubleshooting insufficient access error for metrics query

> If you get an HTTP error with status code 403 (Forbidden), it means that the provided credentials does not have
> sufficient permissions to query the workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you get an HTTP error with status code 403 (Forbidden), it means the provided credentials lack sufficient permissions to query the workspace.

```

```text
"{"error":{"message":"The provided credentials have insufficient access to perform the requested operation","code":"InsufficientAccessError","correlationId":""}}"
```

1. Check that the application or user that is making the request has sufficient permissions:
    * You can refer to this document to [manage access to workspaces](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/logs/manage-access#manage-access-using-workspace-permissions)

> 2. If the user or application is granted sufficient privileges to query the workspace, make sure you're authenticating as that user/application. If you're authenticating using the [DefaultAzureCredential](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity), check the logs to verify the credential used is the one you expected. To enable logging, see the [Enable client logging](#enable-client-logging) section above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. If the user or application is granted sufficient privileges to query the workspace, make sure you're authenticating as that user/application. If you're authenticating using the [DefaultAzureCredential](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity), check the logs to verify the credential used is the one you expected. To enable logging, see the [Enable client logging](#enable-client-logging) section.
```

For more help with troubleshooting authentication errors, see the Azure Identity client library [troubleshooting guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/monitor/Azure.Monitor.Query/TroubleshootingGuide.md).

### Troubleshooting unsupported granularity for metrics query

If you notice the following exception, this is due to an invalid time granularity in the metrics query request. Your query might have set the `MetricsQueryOptions.Granularity` property to an unsupported duration.

```text
"{"code":"BadRequest","message":"Invalid time grain duration: PT10M, supported ones are: 00:01:00,00:05:00,00:15:00,00:30:00,01:00:00,06:00:00,12:00:00,1.00:00:00"}"
```

As documented in the error message, the supported granularity for metrics queries are:

- 1 minute
- 5 minutes
- 15 minutes
- 30 minutes
- 1 hour
- 6 hours
- 12 hours
- 1 day

## Additional Azure Core configurations

> When calling the methods, some properties including `retry_mode`, `timeout`, `connection_verify` can be configured by passing in as keyword arguments. See
> [handling failures](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/core/Azure.Core/README.md#reporting-errors-requestfailedexception) for list of all such properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When calling the methods, some properties including `retry_mode`, `timeout`, `connection_verify` can be configured by passing in as keyword arguments. For a list of all such properties, see [handling failures](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/core/Azure.Core/README.md#reporting-errors-requestfailedexception).
```
